Good afternoon everybody. My name is Sedara. Um
I am an engineer on the cloud code team. Um and
today we're going to be talking a little bit
about uh the cloud code SDK and uh the cloud
GitHub action that was just announced today.
Um cool. So a little bit about the agenda.
uh we do a little quick start for the SDK
uh just to give some examples of how to get
started and how to use the SDK. Uh we will
then dive into uh a live demo of the GitHub
action which should be fun. Uh the GitHub action
was built on top of the SDK. So it's meant to be
um a source of inspiration for the kind of things
that you can do using the cloud code SDK. Uh we'll
then dive into some uh more advanced features of
the SDK. Um, and then we'll end with having all
of you set up uh the the cloud GitHub uh GitHub
action on your repo so you guys can start using
it and build on top of it. Um, cool. Actually,
before we get started, uh, can I get a show of
hands here? How many people have used cloud code?
Okay, it's a lot of people. And, uh, of the people
who have used cloud code, uh, how many have used
cla or know what that is? Okay. Okay. far fewer
people. Uh it's good to know. Um if you guys
don't have cloud code installed in your laptop,
uh that's how you get it. Uh I'd encourage you
to to install it in your laptops and follow
along. Uh there will be parts of this uh this
talk that will be beneficial to follow along
and then if you don't want to, you don't have to.
It's all good. Uh cool. So what is the cloud code
SDK? It is a way to programmatically access the
power of the cloud code agent in headless mode.
Uh this is powerful because uh it's a new kind
of primitive and a new kind of building block
that allows you to build applications that just
weren't possible before. Um things that you can
do with with the with the SDK are like super
simple things to get started. Like for example,
you can use it like a Unix tool. Uh the Unix the
Unixish tool philosophy is what really makes cloud
code powerful because you can plug it in anywhere
where you can run bash or a terminal. Uh so you
can like use it in your in your Unix pipelines. Uh
you can pipe stuff into it, pipe stuff out of it,
have like make like complex chains out of it and
stuff like that. You can then build CI automation
on it. So you can have Claude review your code.
Some people actually get Claude to write new
llinters for them too. So like Claude can lint
your code. If there are specific things that you
can't define programmatically, you can get Claude
code to do it. Uh and then we get into fancier
applications as well. So if you want to build
your own chatbot that's powered by cloud code,
that's certainly possible. Um if you want
cloud code to write you code in like a um a new
environment or a separate remote environment, uh
you can build those kinds of applications as well.
Um and finally, the these are a few features.
We'll talk more about the features in the coming
slides. Uh and we have Python and Typescript SDKs
or like bindings for the cloud code SDK coming up
soon. Uh so that should make it much easier for
you guys to consume it and build on top of it.
Uh so let's jump into some basic examples. Uh
calling claude the cloud code SDK is as simple
as just doing claude-b and following it up with
the string that you want to ask claude. So in
this example uh I'm telling claude to write me
a Fibonacci sequence generator. Um and if you
notice I also give it a d-allow tools write which
is uh a way for me to proactively give it access
to the right tool so it can write files to my
file system. Um, and then this is something I
like doing too. Uh, piping logs to claude. So you
can do cat log cat app.log and then pipe that into
cloud-b looking at logs manually. So this is
something I do quite often. Um, and as you can
see, it does a pretty decent job of summarizing
what the log failures were. Uh, similarly, uh, if
you're anything like me, I just can't get myself
to understand the output of if config. I still
don't know what it means, but Claude does and
Claude does it for me over here. Um, and finally,
this is uh this is kind of what makes the SDK
tick, right? It is this is a we have an output
format. If you do d-output format JSON, uh, cloud
code will actually output things or its response
in JSON as opposed to plain text. And, uh, you
can parse this JSON and build on top of it. Um, so
we we'll talk more about details for how this is
what what else you can do with this JSON, but uh
I wanted to throw that example out there. Uh let's
get into a significantly more complex example now
uh which is the uh the cloud GitHub action. Uh so
cloud GitHub action was built on top of the SDK
um and it can be used to uh review code. It can
be used to create new features. It can be used to
u triage bugs and so on. Um and uh this is also
open source. So I'll include a link at the very
end of the talk. Uh so you guys can go have a look
at the source for inspiration for how to use it.
Uh but for now let's jump into a live demo on my
laptop. So I have cloned a popular uh small like
uh open- source quiz app for this for the purposes
of this demo. Um and we are going to fire it up
just to see how that works and then we will tell
cloud to build something on top of it for us. So,
I just did an npm start, which opened up my my
shiny new quiz app. It's actually pretty nifty. It
allows you to like choose a bunch of categories.
Uh how many questions you want, difficulty,
definitely easy for me. I suck at trivia. Um
type of questions. And then there's like a
countdown timer. So, we're not going to actually
answer these unless someone feels very strongly,
please shout out the answer. But I'm just going
to just fly through these uh just to show you
guys how this how this like little quiz app works.
There we go. Uh not surprising. We got a great F,
but that's okay. Um we So this was the little like
demo quiz app that that's open sourced. And if we
look at the issues for for this uh for this um uh
repo, we see a couple very interesting ones. Um,
there's one issue that says, uh, we should add
powerups for 50/50 elimination of options and skip
questions for free. Um, because I suck at trivia,
I really like that feature and I want to build
it. Uh, and I before before this presentation, I
already installed cloud the cloud GitHub action
on my repo. So, it it's already available. Um, but
we'll go over like how to set that up uh uh later
too. Um, okay. So, here's the issue. Um it has
pretty sparse details on how to implement this.
It's just literally a feature a wish list really
like a a wish feature. It's saying uh add a power
up option in the config 50/50 elimination for the
skip question. It should avoid user points even
even though the user the question was skipped. Uh
and user should be able to configure this from the
config page. So there's a lot of like creative
room for claw to do whatever it wants to do
uh in this case and I'm excited to see what it
actually ends up building. So what I'm going to
do is say at cloud please implement this feature
and comment on it. So it usually does take a four
or five seconds for it to respond. And while it's
doing that for good measure we'll just also take
this other GitHub issue. Uh this is talking about
uh a per question timer. So we saw there was like
a global timer on the quiz app but there was no
per question timer. Uh so that's what this one's
uh talking about. So let's go and say cloud please
build this. And now we have two things building.
Um cool. So now when I get back to this tab you
see that claude responded with a comment on this
GitHub issue. Uh saying that it's working. Uh
it also has a link to the job run which is the
GitHub action run. If I click into it and if
I actually like click on the logs, I'll see
that it's doing a bunch of stuff. You can see all
this JSON being output. This is from the SDK. Um,
so we won't look at the JSON too much because it's
not much fun to parse it manually. But over here
we can see that it also created a to-do list for
us. So claw is now going to actually go through
this to-do list and try to implement uh implement
the uh powerup feature. Uh and similarly for the
question timer uh it's going to do something
something uh similar. Uh one more thing that
we should do here is um there are already a
couple pull requests that have been opened
uh for this repo. Um and let's get claw to
review it or change some of these pull requests
uh just just for fun. Uh there's this one which
is change background color to blue. All right.
I I actually think I like green better. So,
I'm just going to be like, "All right, Claude,
please change this to green." Uh, this one is
fairly easy, and I'm pretty sure Claude's going
to do this, but I just wanted to show you guys
that it can also add commits for a pull request
that's already open. U Okay, so this is going to
take a few minutes to run. And while this runs,
uh, let's let's go back to the presentation,
and then we'll check up on how this is doing,
um, towards the end. Um, okay cool. So, let's do
a little bit of a deep dive on the features of the
SDK. Uh, when you call cloud-ba it has it has uh
it has no edit or destructive permission access.
Uh, which is great for safety, but it's not great
for actually getting things done. uh which is why
there is a d-allowed tools option which allows you
to to preconfigure cloud with uh any permissions
that you think it might need in the future for for
for your given task. Uh so in this case the first
example you see that I've given it permissions
bash permissions to uh npm run build npm test
and the right tool uh which is a good set of
uh permissions because this allows cloud to uh
self-verify what's what it's writing uh and build
uh build build your project and test and then
continue writing. Um similarly for MCP if you have
MCP servers configured um you can allow list those
MCP tools as well. So it's it's a very similar uh
very similar process. Uh then structured output
uh we already saw an example of structured output
both from the GitHub actions logs and uh also the
the little screenshot I showed you earlier. But
there's two there's two modes here. There's stream
JSON and JSON. Um it it's it does exactly what
it sounds like. If you if you select stream JSON,
it'll actually stream messages to you as and
when they're available versus JSON will just
give you one giant blob of JSON at the end. U
and parsing this JSON and building on top of it
is really how you can make use of the cloud
code SDK um and and create features for for
your users. Um and then you can also configure
the system prompt. So you can do d-system prompt
talk like a pirate and you can get cloud code
to talk like a pirate for the rest of your day.
uh which is actually quite fun. If you haven't
done it, I'd encourage you to try it out. Um
we also have uh a few user interact interaction
features built into the SDK. Um and what that
means is like the first one is uh is resuming
session state. So um when you uh when you call
cloud-p in in structured output or JSON mode, it's
going to return a session ID. Uh and this session
ID is useful because you can then reference the
session ID to go back to the same context state
that that claude had when it finished that
process. Uh so by preserving these session
IDs and keeping track of them, you can enable or
like build user interactive features where like
you the user says something, you pass that on to
claude, uh claude returns a response and now you
want the user to give feedback on that response
and that's how this kind of enables you to to
build those types of interactions in your apps.
Um, and then the last one, and this one's actually
pretty interesting, and it's it's fairly recent,
too. Um, it's it's d-permission prompt tool. Um,
we talked a little bit about how to give cloud
permissions using the allowed tools flag. And that
requires you to to preconfigure them in advance.
Uh, but what if you didn't want to do them because
you don't know what tools cloud wants to what tool
tools cloud would want to use in the future? Um,
in that case, you can use the d-p permission
prompt tool and offload the permission management
to an to an MCP server. U so you can ask users
in real time for whether they want to accept a
tool or reject a tool and you can have an
MCP server kind of handle that for you as
opposed to trying to predict which tools are
okay and which tools are not. Um, so this is
uh this is fairly recent and we'd love to get
feedback on this if you guys end up trying it out.
Uh, okay. Let's let's go back to our demo uh and
see what Claude's done. Um, all right. So, this is
the power up issue. Uh, we can see that Claude
has actually gone through his to-do list. Um,
okay. I'm going to open a PS. There's a
there's a link over here to create a PR.
And I'm going to click that uh and see
what that gives us. I'll actually create
the pull request too so it's easier
for us to review. Um I don't really
know how this codebase works but we'll
still eyeball it just to see if you know
it's doing the right thing. U so you see
some set power up stuff seems all right.
Okay. There's like some configuration in the
main component. Um all right. Right. I think
what we should do and what would make this fun
is we should just get this branch locally and
see what Claude did because there's no way
that we can actually figure out what it did
in the short amount of time that we have. So, I'm
going to go back to my terminal, do a good fetch,
check out the branch that Claude just
created, and restart our process. Okay.
Uh, awesome. Uh, it looks like we have a powerup
section now, uh, at the bottom of our config page.
And it's a little check box. I like that touch.
Uh, we'll keep both of them on. And, uh, no, let's
select general knowledge. Uh, let's start playing
this game. Let's see what it did. Oh, sweet. So,
we You see it has like this little 50/50 button
on the bottom left and a skip questions button on
the right. Um, I'm just going to with 50/50
because I have no idea what the answer this
is. Does anybody know what that is? D. Okay,
there we go. That makes sense. Cadbury. Yeah.
Uh, all right. I'm going to
skip this one and then let's
just breeze through the other ones
for for sake of time. Um, all right.
All right. Still got a still got an F, but
we got we got one one correct answer. Uh,
which is better than zero correct
answers. Um, and yeah, uh, I guess
uh, yeah, it tricked us. Uh, that
was a good one. Um, but yeah, I mean,
it it seems like it worked. I think there's
definitely more we could do here. We could
like show how the power like which questions
we we use the power upon over here. And there's
like definitely more we can do. But at the most
basic level, I think uh Claude was able to do
u do the task that we assigned it to do. Um
which is exciting. Like this is kind of the
power of the GitHub action because you didn't
really have to run this on your own infra. You
can just literally comment on a thread saying
please build this for me. It uses your your
uh GitHub action runners and just like does the
thing. Um we let's also look at the PR that we
told it to change from blue to green. Uh it's
all hex code. So let's just see what it did in
the commits. So you see there's two commits and uh
Claude has added this last one to switch it from
blue to green. And it did it for all three of the
places where uh we uh where the color was defined,
which is which is awesome. Um okay. Uh I'm not
going to go over the last one, the question timer,
because we we might run out of time. Um, but
this hopefully gives you uh insight into what
the cloud GitHub action can can do for you. Um,
let's let's go back to the presentation now.
Okay. So, just as a recap, uh, the cloud
GitHub action um, as it's implemented today,
uh, is able to to read your code. It's able to
create PRs for you from GitHub issues like we
just saw. It's able to create commits for you.
So if you already have a PR and you commit or
you comment on it, it can add a commit to an
existing branch or an existing PR. Um it can
answer questions. It doesn't have to do something.
It can just literally answer questions for you.
If you don't understand something, you can be
like, "Hey Claude, how does this work?" And you
can get it to answer questions and it can of
course review your code. Uh the best part of
all of this is that you don't have to take care
of the infra. It runs on existing GitHub runners
which almost everyone has configured if you're
using GitHub actions. Um, so that that's kind
of the really nice thing about this is you
don't have to worry about any of the infra.
Okay. Um, so how were actions built, right? Um,
I think I I may have mentioned that these actions
were built on top of the SDK. Um, we so the SDK
does form the foundation of how these actions were
built and then we have two other actions on top.
We have the cloud code base action. Uh this is a
thin layer that just uh uh it it just implements
the piece which talks to cloud code and returns
the response from cloud code. Um and then we have
another action on top of this which is called the
PR action. And this action is responsible for
all the fancy things that you saw um on the
PR. So it's responsible for making comments, for
the to-do list, for rendering it the right way,
uh for adding the PR links and things like that.
So um it it's kind of three layers uh in which
it's built. Both the base action and the PR action
are open sourced. Uh so I would encourage you guys
to go have a look uh you know take inspiration
from how that works and maybe that inspires more
ideas. Um yeah. Um yeah and then uh finally uh we
also um uh you guys can install the cloud GitHub
actions today. Uh the easiest way to do this is
to open up cloud code in a terminal uh in the repo
that you want to install it in. Uh and once you
open up cloud code, just do slashinstall github
action. Um and that is going to present you with a
nice flow which uh guides you through configuring
your GitHub action as well as merging it. So the
end the end result of this would be a PR which
would be a YAML file for your GitHub action. Um,
and once you merge that in and you configure your
API keys and things like that, uh, you're off
to the races and you can you can go ahead and
start tagging Cloud and using Claude, uh, like
we just did right now. Um, uh, small caveat,
if you're if you're a Bedrock or Vertex user, uh,
the instructions are a little bit different and
a tiny bit more manual. So, uh, please have
a look at the docs. the docs uh are pretty
comprehensive in uh in in in helping you set up
uh the GitHub action for both bedrock and Vortex.
Uh cool. Finally, uh resources. Uh these are
resources for things that we've talked about
today. If you want to snap a picture, uh go
ahead. Um the the the open source repos for
both the base action and the cloud code action
are are here. Um and we we absolutely love your
feedback as well. So if you guys have any feedback
on the SDK, on the GitHub action or on cloud code,
uh please go to our um public cloud code
GitHub repo and file an issue there and
someone will have a look um and and get
back to you. Um cool. That's all I have
for today. Uh thanks for joining me and I
hope you guys have a good rest of the day.